# COMP 445 Lab Assignment 2

## Network Socket Programming

Due Date: March 1st, 2021

Version number: 4

| Name               | ID       |
| ------------------ | -------- |
| Gordon Pham-Nguyen | 40018402 |
| Siu Ye             | 40032209 |

### Request for Comments Deep Dive Questions

#### 1. What uniquely distinguishes clients on a server?

A client is distinguished from other clients on the server with a unique nickname of 9 characters long.

#### 2. What information must all servers have relating to users?

The server needs to know the real name of the host that the client is running on, as well as the username of the client on that host and which server the client is connected to.

#### 3. How many bits are used in the protocol to define a character?

8 bits (octet) are used to define a character.

#### 4. What is the binary representation of the character that is used to separate commands and parameters?

The prefix, commands and parameters are separated by one or more ASCII space character, which in binary is 00100000.

#### 5. What is/are the character(s) that mark(s) the termination of an IRC message?

The characters that end a message are `CR-LF` (Carriage Return - Line Feed).

#### 6. What’s the maximum length of a message?

The messages cannot exceed 512 characters including `CR-LF`.

#### 7. What is the only valid prefix that a client can put in a message?

The only valid prefix that a client can use is the registered nickname associated with the client.

#### 8. What does a server do when it receives a numeric reply from a client?

Numeric replies from a client are dropped because those are not allowed to originate from a client.

#### 9. What is the content of the reply that a server generates when it receives a NICK message from a client that causes a nickname collision?

If a nickname collision occurs, which is when the server is aware of an identical nickname for another client, the server removes all instances of the nickname from the database and issues a KILL command to remove all the instances of that nickname from other servers' databases.

If the a nickname change was requested when the collision happened, then the old nickname is also dropped.

The server may also issue an ERR_NICKCOLLISION to the local client if that client is directly connected to the server and drop the NICK command.

#### 10. Name one security issue with the protocol? Refer to the relevant section in the RFC 1459 or its updates

The PASS command is not required for neither the client nor the server to register a connection. Due to this, it is hard to verify who is on the other end of the connection.

### Packet Analysis of IRC Connection Questions

#### 1. Find the destination port that the client connected to on freenode.net

The destination port the client is connecting to on freenode is 6667.

#### 2. Find the nickname that the session is using on the server

The nickname the user is using is `asf91`.

#### 3. Find the period of time that the user is connected to the server

The request sent to connect was approximately at 00:17:15 (UTC time) and finally the user received the response to their quit request at 00:26:17.

They were connected for 9 minutes and 2 seconds.

#### 4. Find the last message that the user sent to the channel

The user sent `Find a special url using 'urlencoded-form' in the WS filter` to the channel `#tmp-445`.

#### 5. Find the connection password

The password used is `plzUseEncrypt`.
