# COMP 445 Lab Assignment 1

## Basic Network Setup and Tools

Due Date: February 1st, 2021

Version number: 4

| Name               | ID       |
| ------------------ | -------- |
| Gordon Pham-Nguyen | 40018402 |
| Siu Ye             | 40032209 |

## Q1. Internet Protocol Configuration (ipconfig)

### a.

| Device  | IPv4 Address | Subnet Mask   | Default Gateway |
| ------- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------- |
| PC0     | 10.0.0.4     | 255.255.255.0 | 10.0.0.1        |
| PC1     | 10.0.0.3     | 255.255.255.0 | 10.0.0.1        |
| Laptop0 | 10.0.0.2     | 255.255.255.0 | 10.0.0.1        |
| PC2     | 172.16.0.3   | 255.255.255.0 | 172.16.0.1      |
| Laptop1 | 192.168.1.2  | 255.255.255.0 | 192.168.1.1     |

### b.

Each device connected to its respective router will have a unique IPv4 address in that local network.

The default gateway (router's address) will be the same for all devices connected to the same local network.

The subnet mask is the same across all because there is only one logical partition for each respective local network.

### c.

All of the information comes from the router when a certain device connects to the router.

The router provides the device a unique local IP address through DHCP and then can communicate with the other devices on the same local network and the outside internet through the router.

### d.

When a device can no longer communicate with other devices on the same local network and misconfiguration is suspected, we should verify if the host's network settings have been tampered with and bring them back be automatically managed by DHCP, then the command `ipconfig /renew` can be used to acquire new information through DHCP.

## Q2. Ping

### a.

| Hosts   |         | Average Time (ms) |
| ------- | ------- | ----------------- |
| From    | To      |                   |
| PC0     | Laptop0 | 0 ms              |
| PC1     | PC0     | 0 ms              |
| Laptop0 | PC1     | 0 ms              |
| Laptop1 | PC2     | 3 ms              |
| Laptop1 | PC0     | 2 ms              |

### b.

The ping results vary based on the length each request needs to travel to the endpoint.

### c.

A ping fails when the destination is unreachable.

A ping request packet must first be able to exit of the host device and reach the router. The router then reads the request and continues routing the request.

It is possible the request cannot reach the router due to network misconfiguration on the host.

Once the request reaches the router, the ping may fail if the router does not have access to the Internet (if the request is leaving the local network). This may happen if the DNS settings are misconfigured on the router or ISP provider settings are misconfigured.

From here, the ping may fail if the destination is not available (could be that the destination device is not connected to a network) or decides to drop the request as ping requests are usually low priority.

### d.

Advantage: ping is very simple and its only responsibility is to measure the round trip between the host and the destination.

Disadvantage: ping is that the request is rated as low priority and is sometimes dropped. It also does not provide any information about the destination host other than the round trip time and the host's existence.

## Q3. Tracert/Traceroute – 12.5 points

### a.

| Hosts   |         | Path(s)                                          |
| ------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| From    | To      |                                                  |
| PC0     | PC2     | 10.0.0.1 &#8594; 126.7.128.1 &#8594; 172.16.0.3  |
| Laptop0 | PC0     | 10.0.0.4                                         |
| PC2     | Laptop1 | 172.16.0.1 &#8594; 128.3.2.2 &#8594; 192.168.1.2 |

### b.

It would take the fastest path from PC0 to Laptop1, similarly to PC2 &#8594; Laptop1. Therefore, start from hosts as PC0, 10.0.0.0/24 &#8594; 78.92.182.0/30 &#8594; 192.168.1.0/24, reaching Laptop1.

### c.

The result are not consistent with B. It is routing itself to the Concordia network edge then going to the Moodle network edge with the following path: 10.0.0.1 &#8594; 126.7.128.1 &#8594; 128.3.2.2 &#8594; 192.168.1.2. The home network edge might not have Internet exchange point (IXP) to the Moodle network edge therefore requires to pass by the Concordia network edge.

### d.

Advantage: traceroute is great to see one of many possible paths a network requests may take to reach its destination to have a better understanding of networking.

Disadvantage: traceroute has low survival time (TTL), and is also considered to be a low priority so it may take a long time to complete a full path because network nodes in the middle may decide to not respond.

## Q4. Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)

### a.

| Internet Address | Physical Address | Type    |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 10.0.0.3         | 00e0.b0d1.7ba5   | dynamic |

### b.

| Internet Address | Physical Address | Type    |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| 10.0.0.1         | 0007.ec65.b901   | dynamic |
| 10.0.0.3         | 00e0.b0d1.7ba5   | dynamic |

It displayed the connection path to Laptop1. There doesn't seem to be any inconsistency the IP are still dynamic but hasn't change, and the physical address is still mapped to the same IP address.

### c.

Advantage: ARP can easily find the mapping of MAC addresses to IP addresses.

Disadvantage: ARP stores the mappings in a cache table, if there are dynamic IP addresses (very likely), after a long period of time, the cache table may not be valid anymore. Spoofing is another disadvantage of ARP, a malicious machine may pretend to be another trusted machine by spoofing its MAC address to intercept packets.

## Q5. Troubleshooting Topologies in CPT

| Device  | IPv4 Address    | Subnet Mask   | Default Gateway | Physical Address |
| ------- | --------------- | ------------- | --------------- | ---------------- |
| PC0     | 10.0.0.5        | 255.255.255.0 | 0.0.0.0         | 0002.4aeb.44d2   |
| PC1     | 169.254.123.165 | 255.255.0.0   | 0.0.0.0         | 00e0.b0d1.7ba5   |
| Laptop0 | 169.254.118.173 | 255.255.0.0   | 0.0.0.0         | 0007.ec8b.76ad   |
| PC2     | 172.16.0.3      | 255.255.255.0 | 172.16.0.1      | 00e0.a3a8.2b1d   |
| Laptop1 | 192.168.1.2     | 255.255.255.0 | 192.168.1.1     | 00d0.ba9a.0c4d   |

We notice ipthe PC1 and Laptop0 Subnet Mask different from the other end devices.

Pinging PC1 from PC0, return a request timed out with a 100% packet loss, similarly from PC1 to Laptop0 we receive the same message. However, PC1 and Laptop0 can ping one another just fine.

Systems within the same subnet can communicate directly with each other, while systems on different subnets must communicate through a router. Therefore, subnetworks can be used to partition multiple networks and limit the traffic between them.

By going through the configuration under Config and then Global/Setting, also changing the subnet mask under Interface/FastEthernet0 we noticed the ip configuration being different between the different subnet mask. By changing the setting of PC1 and Laptop0, they are now all connected on the same network.

Resulting in the following changes :

| Device  | IPv4 Address | Subnet Mask   | Default Gateway | Physical Address |
| ------- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------- | ---------------- |
| PC0     | 10.0.0.5     | 255.255.255.0 | 10.0.0.1        | 0002.4aeb.44d2   |
| PC1     | 10.0.0.4     | 255.255.255.0 | 10.0.0.1        | 00e0.b0d1.7ba5   |
| Laptop0 | 10.0.0.3     | 255.255.255.0 | 10.0.0.1        | 0007.ec8b.76ad   |
| PC2     | 172.16.0.3   | 255.255.255.0 | 172.16.0.1      | 00e0.a3a8.2b1d   |
| Laptop1 | 192.168.1.2  | 255.255.255.0 | 192.168.1.1     | 00d0.ba9a.0c4d   |

## Q6. Creating Topologies in CPT

| Device | IPv4 Address | Subnet Mask     | Default Gateway | Physical Address |
| ------ | ------------ | --------------- | --------------- | ---------------- |
| PC0    | 1.2.3.4      | 255.255.255.192 | 1.2.3.5         | 00e0.f9a8.8c21   |
| PC1    | 5.4.3.2      | 255.255.255.128 | 5.4.3.1         | 0009.7c52.7a73   |
